---
title: Filtering Trace Messages
description: Filtering Trace Messages
ms.assetid: 6e4be7ea-1a3f-4fb2-900d-b857cd635fde
keywords: ["TraceView WDK , filtering messages", "filtering trace messages WDK", "filtering trace messages, about filtering trace messages", "trace message filters WDK", "trace message filters WDK , about trace message filters", "rules WDK software tracing"]
---

# Filtering Trace Messages


One of the challenges of working with software tracing is the volume of messages that is generated by even a simple and familiar provider. Trace message filters in TraceView help you to find and highlight critical messages and hide the others.

A *trace message filter* is a set of rules that changes the appearance of trace messages in a [Trace Message List](trace-message-lists.md). It applies to all trace messages in a trace session, log display, or trace session (or log) group. The filter does not change the underlying trace provider or trace log.

You can create and change the trace message filter while the trace session is running, after it is complete, or while viewing a trace log.

This section includes

[Adding a Rule](adding-a-rule.md)

[Deleting a Rule](deleting-a-rule.md)

[Changing a Rule](changing-a-rule.md)

[Saving a Filter](saving-a-filter.md)

[Filter Rule Elements](filter-rule-elements.md)

[Special Actions for Filter Rules](special-actions-for-filter-rules.md)

### <span id="comments"></span><span id="COMMENTS"></span>Comments

Most filter rules are effective immediately. Filters rules that use the **Discard** action are effective only on messages that arrive after the rule is applied. To apply a **Discard** rule to an existing log file, [save the workspace](saving-or-resaving-a-workspace.md), [remove the trace session](removing-a-trace-session.md), and then [open the workspace](opening-a-workspace.md).

Filter rules are applied in the order that they appear in the filter. If more than one rule affects a trace message, only the first rule that affects the message is applied.

The rules in a filter are implicitly connected by OR operations; that is, they are all applied. To connect rules with AND operations, select the **AND** action.

 

 

[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20[devtest\devtest]:%20Filtering%20Trace%20Messages%20%20RELEASE:%20%2811/17/2016%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")




