---
title: Tracefmt
description: Tracefmt
ms.assetid: abf23d76-423d-4d1e-afde-83739015bbfd
keywords: ["Tracefmt WDK", "software tracing WDK , Tracefmt", "displaying trace messages", "formatting trace messages WDK Tracefmt", "trace message formatting WDK Tracefmt", "software tracing WDK , formatting messages", "tracing WDK , Tracefmt", "trace message format files WDK"]
---

# Tracefmt


## <span id="ddk_tracefmt_tools"></span><span id="DDK_TRACEFMT_TOOLS"></span>


Tracefmt (Tracefmt.exe) is a command-line tool that formats and displays trace messages from an event trace log file (.etl) or a real-time trace session. Tracefmt can display the messages in the Command Prompt window or save them in a text file.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="100%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th align="left">Where can I get Tracefmt?</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td align="left"><p>Tracefmt (Tracefmt.exe) is included when you install the WDK, Visual Studio, and the Windows SDK for desktop apps. For information about downloading the kits, see [Windows Hardware Downloads](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=290798).</p>
<p><strong>Windows Driver Kit (WDK) 8.1</strong> (installation path)</p>
<p>%WindowsSdkDir%\bin\x64\Tracefmt.exe</p>
<p>%WindowsSdkDir%\bin\x86\Tracefmt.exe</p>
<div class="alert">
<strong>Note</strong>  The Visual Studio environment variable, %WindowsSdkDir%, represents the path to the Windows kits directory where the kits are installed, for example, C:\Program Files (x86)\Windows Kits\8.1.
</div>
<div>
 
</div></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

Tracefmt uses the formatting instructions in a [trace message format (TMF) file](trace-message-format-file.md) to convert the binary trace messages to human-readable format. You can provide a TMF file or provide the image file for the trace provider and have Tracefmt create a TMF file.

Tracefmt can format trace events generated by the **TraceEvent** function, and trace messages generated by the [**WmiTraceMessage**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff565836), the **TraceMessage** function, or the [**DoTraceMessage**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff544918) macro. For more information about the **TraceEvent** and **TraceMessage** functions, see the Windows SDK documentation.

This section includes:

[Understanding Tracefmt](understanding-tracefmt.md)

[Tracefmt Concepts](tracefmt-concepts.md)

[**Tracefmt Commands**](tracefmt-commands.md)

[Tracefmt Examples](tracefmt-examples.md)

 

 

[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20[devtest\devtest]:%20Tracefmt%20%20RELEASE:%20%2811/17/2016%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")




