---
title: Trace Message List Features
description: Trace Message List Features
ms.assetid: c640626d-6d64-45c4-861f-6e2f20b7dfb1
keywords: ["Trace Message Lists WDK"]
---

# Trace Message List Features


This topic describes the features of the Trace Message List. You can use these features to customize the list.

### <span id="displaying_and_hiding_columns"></span><span id="DISPLAYING_AND_HIDING_COLUMNS"></span>Displaying and Hiding Columns

To display and hide columns of the Trace Message List, right-click anywhere in the column heading row. On the shortcut menu that appears, checked properties are displayed; unchecked properties are hidden. To display or hide a property, select it from the shortcut menu.

You can use this procedure to display valuable information about the trace message, including the function name and the line number in the source code that generated the message.

### <span id="saving_the_column_configuration"></span><span id="SAVING_THE_COLUMN_CONFIGURATION"></span>Saving the Column Configuration

TraceView displays selected columns by default. If you prefer to have different columns displayed and hidden, you can save your column configuration as the new default configuration.

To save a new column configuration, do the following:

1.  In the Trace Message List, right-click any column heading.

2.  Click **Save As Default**.

### <span id="sorting_by_column"></span><span id="SORTING_BY_COLUMN"></span>Sorting by Column

To sort by the values in a column, click the column heading. When you click the column heading repeatedly, the column toggles between the ascending and descending order of the values in that column. By default, the Trace Message List is sorted by the values in the **Msg\#** column.

### <span id="autofit_columns"></span><span id="AUTOFIT_COLUMNS"></span>Autofit Columns

To adjust the width of each column to the width of the data in that column, right-click any trace message row (other than the column headings) in the Trace Message List, and click **AutoFit Columns**.

### <span id="clear_display"></span><span id="CLEAR_DISPLAY"></span>Clear Display

To delete all trace messages from the display, right-click any trace message row (other than the column headings) in the Trace Message List, and click **Clear Display**.

Clearing the display does not delete the trace messages from a trace log or output file. However, if the messages are being generated by a real-time trace session and are not being saved in a log or output file, you will not be able to recover them.

### <span id="copying_trace_messages"></span><span id="COPYING_TRACE_MESSAGES"></span>Copying Trace Messages

To copy trace messages from a Trace Message List, do the following:

1.  Select the trace messages that you want to copy. You can use SHIFT+Click to select consecutive messages or CTRL+Click to copy non-consecutive messages.

2.  Press CTRL+C. Or, right-click any cell of any selected trace message and click **Copy**.

The messages are copied in a tab-delimited format. You can paste them into a text file or spreadsheet file for later use.

For more information about saving trace messages, see [Creating Text Versions of Trace Logs](creating-text-versions-of-trace-logs.md).

 

 

[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20[devtest\devtest]:%20Trace%20Message%20List%20Features%20%20RELEASE:%20%2811/17/2016%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")




