---
title: Overview of Installing Private Builds of Inbox Drivers
description: Overview of Installing Private Builds of Inbox Drivers
ms.assetid: eec9474c-5aad-4b81-b7df-5e89cbfe92ab
---

# Overview of Installing Private Builds of Inbox Drivers


Starting with Windows Vista, when a Plug and Play (PnP) device is installed on a computer system, Windows selects a driver based on several factors, such as the [hardware ID](hardware-ids.md) or [compatible ID](compatible-ids.md), date, and version. Windows analyzes these factors to assign a rank that indicates how well the driver matches the device. The lower the rank, the better a match the driver is for the device.

Also, starting with Windows Vista, if a driver has a signature from a Windows signing authority (Microsoft signature), Windows ranks it better than another driver for the same device that was signed with:

-   A third-party release signature. This type of signature is generated by using a [Software Publisher Certificate](software-publisher-certificate.md) that is obtained from a third-party certification authority (CA) authorized by Microsoft to issue such certificates.

-   A Microsoft signature for a Windows version that is earlier than the [LowerLogoVersion](lowerlogoversion.md) value of the driver's [device setup class](device-setup-classes.md).

The Microsoft signature types include the following:

-   Premium WHQL signatures and standard WHQL signatures

-   Signatures for inbox drivers

-   Windows Sustained Engineering (Windows SE) signatures

-   A WHQL signature for a Windows version that is the same or later than the Windows version that is specified by the [LowerLogoVersion](lowerlogoversion.md) value that is set for the device setup class of a driver

**Note**  Even if a driver that has a third-party signature is a better match for the device, Windows selects the driver that has a Microsoft signature. Using a publisher identity certificate \[PIC\] for the third-party signature does not change this behavior.

 

Starting with Windows Vista, the [**AllSignersEqual** Group Policy](allsignersequal-group-policy--windows-vista-and-later-.md) controls how Windows ranks Microsoft-signed drivers and third party-signed drivers. When **AllSignersEqual** is enabled, Windows treats all Microsoft signatures and third-party signatures as equal with respect to rank when selecting the driver that is the best match for a device.

**Note**  In Windows Vista and Windows Server 2008, the **AllSignersEqual** Group Policy is disabled by default. Starting with Windows 7, this Group Policy is enabled by default.

 

To install a private build of an inbox driver, you must do the following:

-   Build a private version of the inbox driver. You must ensure that the private build outranks the Microsoft-signed version when signatures are treated equally. The private build must also be digitally signed by using tools that are provided with the WDK.

    For more information, see [Creating a Private Build of an Inbox Driver](creating-a-private-build-of-an-in-box-driver.md).

-   Enable the [AllSignersEqual Group Policy](allsignersequal-group-policy--windows-vista-and-later-.md) on the target system so that the operating system views all Microsoft signature types and third-party signatures as equal in rank when it selects the driver that is the best match for a device.

    For more information, see [Configuring Windows to Rank Driver Signatures Equally](configuring-windows-to-rank-driver-signatures-equally.md).

For more information about how Windows ranks drivers, see [How Windows Selects Drivers](how-setup-selects-drivers.md).

 

 

[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20%5Bdevinst\devinst%5D:%20Overview%20of%20Installing%20Private%20Builds%20of%20Inbox%20Drivers%20%20RELEASE:%20%287/22/2016%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")




