---
title: WHQL Test Signature Program
description: WHQL Test Signature Program
ms.assetid: 241a8cfe-c7c4-4c88-9d61-831f18f4eb21
keywords:
- driver signing WDK , WHQL digital signatures
- signing drivers WDK , WHQL digital signatures
- digital signatures WDK , WHQL
- signatures WDK , WHQL
- test signing drivers WDK , WHQL digital signatures
- WHQL digital signatures WDK
ms.date: 04/20/2017
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# WHQL Test Signature Program


The Windows Hardware Quality Labs (WHQL) Test Signature program supports test-signing of drivers that will subsequently be submitted for a [WHQL release signature](whql-release-signature.md). Independent Hardware Vendors (IHVs) that participate in this program can submit [driver packages](driver-packages.md) to be test-signed. The signature on a test-signed [catalog file](catalog-files.md) is generated by a test root certificate that is issued by WHQL under the Microsoft Test Root Authority. Together with the test-signed catalog file, WHQL also provides participants with the test root certificate.

Before users can install a driver from a WHQL test-signed driver package, the test computer must be configured by following these steps:

1.  The User Account Control (UAC) must be disabled to install the WHQL test certificate correctly. For more information, see [Disabling UAC](#disabling-uac).

2.  The WHQL test root certificate (*Testroot.cer*) must be installed in the test computer in the Local Computer folder of the Trusted Root Certification Authorities certificate store. For more information, see [Installing the WHQL test root certificate](#installing-the-whql-test-root-certificate).

3.  The [TESTSIGNING Boot Configuration Option](the-testsigning-boot-configuration-option.md) must be set on the test computer. For more information, see [Setting the TESTSIGNING Boot Configuration Option](#setting-the-testsigning-boot-configuration-option).

For information about how to obtain a WHQL test signature, email <winqual@microsoft.com> and include "Test Signature" in the Subject line.

### Disabling UAC

**Note**  To disable UAC on the test computer, you must be able to log on with or provide the credentials of a member of the local **Administrators** group.

 

You can disable UAC on Windows 7 by following these steps:

1.  On the **Start** menu, type "UAC" and then click **Change User Account settings**.
2.  Move the slide bar to the bottom (**Never Notify**) and then click **OK**.

You can disable UAC on Windows Vista and Windows Server 2008 by following these steps:

1.  Start Control Panel and double-click **User Accounts**.
2.  In the User Accounts tasks window, click **Turn User Account Control on or off**.
3.  Clear the **Use User Account Control (UAC) to help protect your computer** check box, and then click **OK**.

As soon as UAC is disabled, you must restart the test computer to apply the change.

### Installing the WHQL test root certificate

The WHQL test root certificate is installed on the test computer by following these steps:

1.  Double-click the test root certificate file (*Testroot.cer*), and then click **Install Certificate**.

2.  Click **Place all certificates in the following store**, and then click **Browse**.

3.  Select the **Show physical stores** check box, and then expand **Trusted Root Certification Authorities**.

4.  Select the Local Computer folder, and then click **OK**.

    **Note**  If UAC was not previously disabled on the test computer, the Local Computer folder is not displayed.

     

5.  Complete the Certificate Import Wizard and accept all the default settings to install the certificate.

### Setting the TESTSIGNING Boot Configuration Option

The Microsoft Test Root Authority is accepted when test-signing is enabled by setting the [TESTSIGNING Boot Configuration Option](the-testsigning-boot-configuration-option.md) on the computer in which the test-signed driver package is to be installed. This option is enabled by following these steps:

1.  Open an elevated Command Prompt window. To open an elevated Command Prompt window, create a desktop shortcut to Cmd.exe, right-click the Cmd.exe shortcut, and select **Run as administrator**.

2.  In the elevated Command Prompt window, run the following command:

    **BCDEdit /SET TESTSIGNING ON**

3.  Restart the test computer to apply the change.

 

 





