---
title: OID\_SRIOV\_VF\_SERIAL\_NUMBER
author: windows-driver-content
description: An overlying driver issues an object identifier (OID) query request of OID\_SRIOV\_VF\_SERIAL\_NUMBER to determine the serial number of the PCI Express (PCIe) Virtual Function (VF) network adapter.
ms.assetid: C4D04C96-94FA-4E01-839C-A9C5026D7AE5
ms.author: windowsdriverdev
ms.date: 08/08/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-devices
keywords: 
 -OID_SRIOV_VF_SERIAL_NUMBER Network Drivers Starting with Windows Vista
---

# OID\_SRIOV\_VF\_SERIAL\_NUMBER


An overlying driver issues an object identifier (OID) query request of OID\_SRIOV\_VF\_SERIAL\_NUMBER to determine the serial number of the PCI Express (PCIe) Virtual Function (VF) network adapter. This virtual network adapter is exposed in the guest operating system of a Hyper-V child partition to which the VF is attached.

The **InformationBuffer** member of the [**NDIS\_OID\_REQUEST**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff566710) structure contains a pointer to an [**NDIS\_SRIOV\_VF\_SERIAL\_NUMBER\_INFO**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/hh451685) structure.

Remarks
-------

The overlying driver uses the serial number to map the VF network adapter to an instance of a VF on the physical network adapter. The serial number is generated by the virtualization stack before resources for the VF are allocated through an OID set request of [OID\_NIC\_SWITCH\_ALLOCATE\_VF](oid-nic-switch-allocate-vf.md).

### Return Status Codes

NDIS handles the OID query request of the OID\_SRIOV\_VF\_SERIAL\_NUMBER request for miniport drivers. The drivers will not be issued this OID request.

When NDIS handles the OID\_SRIOV\_VF\_SERIAL\_NUMBER request, it returns one of the following status codes.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Status Code</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>NDIS_STATUS_SUCCESS</p></td>
<td><p>The OID request completed successfully.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>NDIS_STATUS_NOT_SUPPORTED</p></td>
<td><p>The miniport driver either does not support the single root I/O virtualization (SR-IOV) interface or is not enabled to use the interface.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>NDIS_STATUS_INVALID_LENGTH</p></td>
<td><p>The information buffer was too short. NDIS sets the <strong>DATA.QUERY_INFORMATION.BytesNeeded</strong> member in the [<strong>NDIS_OID_REQUEST</strong>](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff566710) structure to the minimum buffer size that is required.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>NDIS_STATUS_FAILURE</p></td>
<td><p>The request failed for other reasons.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

Requirements
------------

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Version</p></td>
<td><p>Supported in NDIS 6.30 and later.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Header</p></td>
<td>Ntddndis.h (include Ndis.h)</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## See also


****
[**NDIS\_OID\_REQUEST**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff566710)

[**NDIS\_SRIOV\_VF\_SERIAL\_NUMBER\_INFO**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/hh451685)

[OID\_NIC\_SWITCH\_ALLOCATE\_VF](oid-nic-switch-allocate-vf.md)

 

 


--------------------
[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20%5Bnetvista\netvista%5D:%20OID_SRIOV_VF_SERIAL_NUMBER%20%20RELEASE:%20%288/8/2017%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")


