---
title: Standardized INF keywords for NDIS packet timestamping
description: Standardized INF keywords for NDIS packet timestamping
ms.date: 12/31/2020
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Standardized INF keywords for NDIS packet timestamping

The following standardized INF keywords are defined to enable or disable the timestamping capabilities that the miniport driver and NIC hardware supports.


(used by miniports to determine the current configuration i.e. the currently set value for a keyword indicates which timestamping capabilities are enabled or disabled and can be used by the miniport, e.g. during initialization, to determine their current configuration of the timestamping capabilities which they support.)

[**\*PtpHardwareTimestamp** INF keyword](#ptphardwaretimestamp-inf-keyword)

[**\*SoftwareTimestamp** INF keyword](#softwaretimestamp-inf-keyword)


For more information about standardized INF keywords, see [Standardized INF Keywords for Network Devices](standardized-inf-keywords-for-network-devices.md).

## \*PtpHardwareTimestamp INF keyword

The ***PtpHardwareTimestamp** keyword corresponds to the hardware capability to generate a hardware timestamp for PTP packets. A miniport driver can read this value to determine if hardware timestamping is currently enabled or disabled.

The default setting for the ***PtpHardwareTimestamp** keyword is disabled and all types of hardware timestamping support in the NIC hardware should be disabled by default.

## how miniport informs ndis which timestamping capabilites are ecurrently enabled(move to page on reporting current config)
(The miniport generates the NDIS_STATUS_TIMESTAMP_CURRENT_CONFIG status indication to inform NDIS of the various timestamping capabilities which are currently enabled. The flags within the TimestampFlags field in the NDIS_TIMESTAMP_CAPABILITIES structure which correspond to hardware timestamping are PtpV2OverUdpIPv4EventMsgReceiveHw, PtpV2OverUdpIPv4AllMsgReceiveHw, PtpV2OverUdpIPv4EventMsgTransmitHw, PtpV2OverUdpIPv4AllMsgTransmitHw, PtpV2OverUdpIPv6EventMsgReceiveHw, PtpV2OverUdpIPv6AllMsgReceiveHw, PtpV2OverUdpIPv6EventMsgTransmitHw, PtpV2OverUdpIPv6AllMsgTransmitHw, AllReceiveHw, AllTransmitHw and TaggedTransmitHw. The CrossTimestamp field in the NDIS_TIMESTAMP_CAPABILITIES structure for NDIS_STATUS_TIMESTAMP_CURRENT_CONFIG status indicates if hardware cross timestamping is enabled.)

If the *PtpHardwareTimestamp keyword indicates that hardware timestamping is enabled, the relevant hardware timestamping capabilities of the NIC hardware should be enabled and the NDIS_STATUS_TIMESTAMP_CURRENT_CONFIG status indication generated by the miniport should report which hardware timestamping capabilities have been enabled.

Exactly which hardware timestamping capabilities should be enabled would depend on the capabilities of the NIC hardware. As mentioned earlier, the main scenario which needs to be addressed is PTP version 2 over UDP (for both IPv4 and IPv6) operating in 2 step mode, and this is the scenario which the *PtpHardwareTimestamp keyword addresses. Supporting hardware timestamping for PTP version 2 over UDP (in 2 step mode) for both Rx and Tx direction should be the main consideration when determining which hardware timestamping capabilities in hardware should be enabled when this keyword is set to enabled.

E.g. if the NIC hardware only supports PtpV2OverUDPIPv4EventMsgReceiveHw, PtpV2OverUDPIPv6EventMsgReceiveHw and TaggedTransmitHw capabilities, then if the *PtpHardwareTimestamp keyword is enabled, the miniport can turn on these hardware timestamping capabilities.

Another example is if the NIC hardware only supports AllReceiveHw and TaggedTransmitHw capabilities, then if the *PtpHardwareTimestamp keyword is enabled, the miniport can turn on these hardware timestamping capabilities.

It is possible that the NIC hardware supports multiple forms of hardware timestamping capabilities which can enable the PTPv2 over UDP scenario e.g. if the hardware is capable of generating timestamps for PtpV2OverUDPIPv4EventMsgReceiveHw, PtpV2OverUDPIPv6EventMsgReceiveHw, AllReceiveHw, AllTransmitHw and TaggedTransmitHw. In such a scenario, it is up to the IHV to determine which capabilities should be turned on taking into consideration their hardware. E.g. the performance impact might be a consideration, and if, for example, turning on AllTransmitHw is more expensive compared to TaggedTransmitHw then the IHV may choose to turn on only the TaggedTransmitHw capability for Tx. Similarly for Rx, if it is cheaper to turn on only PtpV2OverUDPIPv4EventMsgReceiveHw and PtpV2OverUDPIPv6EventMsgReceiveHw rather than AllReceiveHw, then the IHV may choose to turn on the PtpV2OverUDPIPv4EventMsgReceiveHw and PtpV2OverUDPIPv6EventMsgReceiveHw capabilities rather than the AllReceiveHw capability.

If the *PtpHardwareTimestamp keyword is enabled, then at least some form of capability to generate hardware timestamps for both Rx and Tx for PTPv2 over UDP should be turned on. Again, it is up to the IHV to determine which exact capabilities should be turned on as described in the above examples.

Note that PTP over raw Ethernet is not supported. It is up to the IHV to determine what the most efficient thing to do would be for PTP over raw Ethernet packets when supporting PTP over UDP scenario is enabled.

No support is needed for PTP version 1. If the NIC hardware also supports PTP version 1, then as recommended above, it is up to the IHV to determine the most efficient way of handling PTP version 1 packets when supporting PTP version 2.

If the *PtpHardwareTimestamp keyword is enabled, the hardware cross timestamping capability should also be turned on if supported by the hardware.

In all cases, the NDIS_STATUS_TIMESTAMP_CURRENT_CONFIG status indication generated by the miniport should accurately report which hardware timestamping capabilities have been enabled\disabled.

The **\*PtpHardwareTimestamp** INF keyword is an enumeration keyword. Enumeration standardized INF keywords have the following attributes:

SubkeyName: The name of the keyword that you must specify in the INF file.

ParamDesc: The display text that is associated with SubkeyName. 

Value: The enumeration integer value that is associated with each SubkeyName in the list. 

EnumDesc: The display text that is associated with each value that appears in the menu.

Default: The default value for the menu.

The following table describes the possible INF entries for the **\*PtpHardwareTimestamp** INF keyword.

|SubkeyName|ParamDesc|Value|EnumDesc|
|--- |--- |--- |--- |
|***PtpHardwareTimestamp**|PTP Hardware Timestamp|0 (Default)|Disabled|
|||1|Enabled|

## \*SoftwareTimestamp INF keyword

The *SoftwareTimestamp keyword corresponds to the types of software timestamping the miniport is capable of, and using the configured value for this keyword the miniport should be able to determine which of the supported software timestamping capabilities are currently enabled. The possible Enum values for this keyword which can be present in the inf file for a miniport are described below.

The default setting for the software timestamping keyword is disabled and all types of software timestamping support in the miniport should be disabled by default.

As mentioned above, the miniport generates the NDIS_STATUS_TIMESTAMP_CURRENT_CONFIG status indication to inform NDIS of the various timestamping capabilities which are currently enabled. The fields within the TimestampFlags field in the NDIS_TIMESTAMP_CAPABILITIES structure which correspond to software timestamping are AllReceiveSw, AllTransmitSw and TaggedTransmitSw.

If the *SoftwareTimestamp keyword contains a value which corresponds to some form of software timestamping being enabled, then the miniport should enable the configured software timestamping capabilities and the NDIS_STATUS_TIMESTAMP_CURRENT_CONFIG status indication generated by the miniport should report accurately which software timestamping capabilities have been enabled.

If the miniport does not support any type of software timestamping than the *SoftwareTimestamp keyword should not be included in its inf file.

The **\*SoftwareTimestamp** INF keyword is an enumeration keyword. Enumeration standardized INF keywords have the following attributes:

SubkeyName: The name of the keyword that you must specify in the INF file.

ParamDesc: The display text that is associated with SubkeyName. 

Value: The enumeration integer value that is associated with each SubkeyName in the list. 

EnumDesc: The display text that is associated with each value that appears in the menu.

Default: The default value for the menu.

The following table describes the possible INF entries for the **\*SoftwareTimestamp** INF keyword.

|SubkeyName|ParamDesc|Value|EnumDesc|
|--- |--- |--- |--- |
|***SoftwareTimestamp**|Software Timestamp|0 (Default)|Disabled|
|||1|**RxAll**: This enum value corresponds to the miniport driver capability to generate software timestamps for all packets during Rx.|
|||2|**TxAll**: This enum value corresponds to the miniport driver capability to generate software timestamps for all packets during Tx.|
|||3|**RxAll & TxAll**: This enum value corresponds to the miniport driver capability to generate software timestamps for all packets during Rx and Tx.|
|||4|**TaggedTx**: This enum value corresponds to the miniport driver capability to generate software timestamps for a specific Tx packet when indicated to do so by the operating system.|
|||5|**RxAll & TaggedTx**: This enum value corresponds to the miniport driver capability to generate software timestamps for all packets during Rx and for a specific Tx packet when indicated to do so by the operating system.|