---
Description: The device descriptor contains information about a USB device as a whole. This topic describes the USB\_DEVICE\_DESCRIPTOR structure and includes information about how a client driver can send a get-descriptor request to obtain the device descriptor.
title: USB device descriptors
author: windows-driver-content
ms.author: windowsdriverdev
ms.date: 04/20/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-devices
---

# USB device descriptors


The device descriptor contains information about a USB device as a whole. This topic describes the [**USB\_DEVICE\_DESCRIPTOR**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff539280) structure and includes information about how a client driver can send a get-descriptor request to obtain the device descriptor.

Every Universal Serial Bus (USB) device must be able to provide a single device descriptor that contains relevant information about the device. The [**USB\_DEVICE\_DESCRIPTOR**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff539280) structure describes a device descriptor. Windows uses that information to derive various sets of information. For example, the **idVendor** and **idProduct** fields specify vendor and product identifiers, respectively. Windows uses those field values to construct a *hardware ID* for the device. To view the hardware ID of a particular device, open **Device Manager** and view device properties. In the **Details** tab, the **Hardware Ids** property value indicates the hardware ID ("USB\\*XXX*") that is generated by Windows. The **bcdUSB** field indicates the version of the USB specification to which the device conforms. For example, 0x0200 indicates that the device is designed as per the USB 2.0 specification. The **bcdDevice** value indicates the device-defined revision number. The USB driver stack uses **bcdDevice**, along with **idVendor** and **idProduct**, to generate hardware and compatible IDs for the device. You can view the those identifiers in **Device Manager**. The device descriptor also indicates the total number of configurations that the device supports.

A device might report different information in its device descriptor when the device is connected to the host computer in a high speed capacity than when it's connected in a full speed capacity. A device must not change the information contained in the device descriptor during the lifetime of a connection, including during power state changes.

The host obtains the device descriptor through a control transfer. In the transfer, the request type is GET DESCRIPTOR and the recipient is the device. The client driver can initiate that transfer in either of two ways: by using the framework USB target device object or by sending an URB with the request information.

-   [Getting the device descriptor](#getting--the-device-descriptor)
-   [Sample device descriptor](#sample-device-descriptor)

## <a href="" id="getting--the-device-descriptor"></a>Getting the device descriptor


A Windows Driver Frameworks (WDF) client driver can obtain the device descriptor only after the framework USB target device object has been created.

A KMDF driver must obtain a WDFUSBDEVICE handle to the USB target device object by calling [**WdfUsbTargetDeviceCreate**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff550077). Typically, a client driver calls **WdfUsbTargetDeviceCreate** in the driver's [*EvtDevicePrepareHardware*](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff540880) callback implementation. After that, the client driver must call the [**WdfUsbTargetDeviceGetDeviceDescriptor**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff550090) method. After the call completes, the device descriptor is received in the caller-allocated [**USB\_DEVICE\_DESCRIPTOR**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff539280) structure.

A UMDF driver must query the framework device object for an [**IWDFUsbTargetDevice**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff560362) pointer and then call the [**IWDFUsbTargetDevice::RetrieveDescriptor**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff560362_retrievedescriptor) method and specify USB\_DEVICE\_DESCRIPTOR\_TYPE as the descriptor type.

The host can also obtain the device descriptor by sending an URB. This method only applies to kernel-mode drivers. However, a client driver should never have to send an URB for this type of request unless the driver is based on Windows Driver Model (WDM). Such a driver must allocate an [**URB**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff538923) structure and then call the [**UsbBuildGetDescriptorRequest**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff538943) macro to specify format the URB for the request. The driver can then send the request by submitting the URB to the USB driver stack. For more information, see [How to Submit an URB](send-requests-to-the-usb-driver-stack.md).

This code example shows a UsbBuildGetDescriptorRequest call that formats the buffer pointed to by pURB with the appropriate URB:

```
UsbBuildGetDescriptorRequest(
    pURB,                                                 // Points to the URB to be formatted
    sizeof(struct _URB_CONTROL_DESCRIPTOR_REQUEST),
    USB_DEVICE_DESCRIPTOR_TYPE,
    0,                                                    // Not used for device descriptors
    0,                                                    // Not used for device descriptors
    pDescriptor,                                          // Points to a USB_DEVICE_DESCRIPTOR structure
    NULL,
    sizeof(USB_DEVICE_DESCRIPTOR),
    NULL
);
```

## Sample device descriptor


This example shows the device descriptor for a USB webcam device (see [USB Device Layout](usb-device-layout.md)), obtained by using the USBView application:

``` syntax
Device Descriptor:
bcdUSB:             0x0200
bDeviceClass:         0xEF
bDeviceSubClass:      0x02
bDeviceProtocol:      0x01
bMaxPacketSize0:      0x40 (64)
idVendor:           0x045E (Microsoft Corporation)
idProduct:          0x0728
bcdDevice:          0x0100
iManufacturer:        0x01
0x0409: "Microsoft"
iProduct:             0x02
0x0409: "Microsoft LifeCam VX-5000"
0x0409: "Microsoft LifeCam VX-5000"
iSerialNumber:        0x00
bNumConfigurations:   0x01
```

In the preceding example, you will see that the device has been developed as per USB Specification, version 2.0. Note the **bDeviceClass**, **bDeviceSubClass**, and **bDeviceProtocol** values. Those values indicate that the device contains one or more USB interface association descriptors that can be used to group multiple interfaces per function. For more information, see [USB Interface Association Descriptor](usb-interface-association-descriptor.md).

Next, see the value of **bMaxPacketSize0**. This value indicates the maximum packet size of the default endpoint. This sample device can transfer up to 64 bytes of data through its default endpoint.

Typically, to configure the device, the client driver gets information about the supported configurations in the device after getting the device descriptor. To determine the number of configurations that the device supports, inspect the **bNumConfigurations** member of the returned structure. This device supports one configuration. To get information about a USB configuration, the driver must get [USB Configuration Descriptors](usb-configuration-descriptors.md).

## Related topics
[USB Descriptors](usb-descriptors.md)  
[USB Configuration Descriptors](usb-configuration-descriptors.md)  

--------------------
[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20%5Busbcon\buses%5D:%20USB%20device%20descriptors%20%20RELEASE:%20%281/26/2017%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")


