---
Description: The topic contains basic information about the USB samples that are available for download from the Windows driver samples repository on GitHub.
title: USB driver samples
author: windows-driver-content
ms.author: windows-driver-content
ms.date: 04/20/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-devices
---

# USB driver samples


The topic contains basic information about the USB samples that are available for download from the [Windows driver samples](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=616507) repository on GitHub.

## <a href="" id="bus-samples"></a>USB Samples


<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Sample name</th>
<th>Sample description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>[WDF Sample Driver Learning Lab for OSR USB-FX2](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=618936)</p>
<p>[Sample UMDF Function Driver for OSR USB-FX2](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=618002)</p>
<p>[Sample KMDF Function Driver for OSR USB-FX2](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=618937)</p></td>
<td><p>The OSRUSBFX2 sample shows how to perform bulk and interrupt data transfers to a Universal Serial Bus (USB) device by using the Microsoft Windows Driver Frameworks (WDF). This sample is written for the OSR USB-FX2 Learning Kit. The specification for the device can be found at [Using the OSR USB FX-2 Learning Kit V2.0](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=64091).</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>[USBSAMP](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=618938)</td>
<td><p>The USBSAMP sample shows how to perform bulk and isochronous data transfers to a generic USB device by using the Windows Driver Framework (WDF). This sample is written for the Intel 82930 USB test board. It contains a console test application to initiate bulk and isochronous transfers and obtain information about the device's I/O endpoints. The application also demonstrates how to use GUID-based device names and pipe names that are generated by the operating system using the <strong>SetupDiXXX</strong> user-mode APIs.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>[USBVIEW](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkId=618004)</td>
<td><p>The USBVIEW sample shows how a user-mode application can enumerate USB host controllers, USB hubs, and attached USB devices and can query information about the devices from the registry and through USB requests to the devices. USBVIEW is based on the Windows Driver Model (WDM).</p>
<div class="alert">
<strong>Note</strong>  For USBView tool, get the executable from Windows Driver Kit (WDK) (Tools\<em>&lt;arch&gt;</em> folder).
</div>
<div>
 
</div></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

## Building a Sample


For information about building the sample drivers, see [Developing, Testing, and Deploying Drivers](https://msdn.microsoft.com/windows-drivers/develop/visual_studio_driver_development_environment).

## Related topics
[Getting started with USB client driver development](getting-started-with-usb-client-driver-development.md)  

--------------------
[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20%5Busbcon\buses%5D:%20USB%20driver%20samples%20%20RELEASE:%20%281/26/2017%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")


