---
title: WIA\_IPA\_ITEM\_FLAGS
description: The WIA\_IPA\_ITEM\_FLAGS property contains the descriptive flags for a WIA item.
MS-HAID:
- 'WIA\_PropTable\_b97a72ca-fbaa-4e76-b4a6-ced543a510b4.xml'
- 'image.wia\_ipa\_item\_flags'
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: ee25fb38-eafa-49a9-83ab-4f99bc25f4e9
keywords: ["WIA_IPA_ITEM_FLAGS Imaging Devices"]
topic_type:
- apiref
api_name:
- WIA_IPA_ITEM_FLAGS
api_location:
- Wiadef.h
api_type:
- HeaderDef
---

# WIA\_IPA\_ITEM\_FLAGS


The WIA\_IPA\_ITEM\_FLAGS property contains the descriptive flags for a WIA item.

## <span id="ddk_wia_ipa_item_flags_si"></span><span id="DDK_WIA_IPA_ITEM_FLAGS_SI"></span>


Property Type: VT\_I4

Valid Values: WIA\_PROP\_NONE

Access Rights: Read-only

Remarks
-------

The WIA item flags are the same as those in the *lObjectFlags* parameter of the [**wiasCreateDrvItem**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff549160) service utility function. The WIA service creates and maintains the WIA\_IPA\_ITEM\_FLAGS property.

An application reads WIA\_IPA\_ITEM\_FLAGS to determine a WIA item's descriptive flag values.

The following table describes the flags that are obsolete in Windows Vista and later versions of the operating system but are valid with Microsoft Windows XP.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Flag</th>
<th>Definition</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeAnalyze</strong></p></td>
<td><p>WIA item that supports the <strong>IWiaItem::AnalyzeItem</strong> method,which is described in the Microsoft Windows SDK documentation. This item also supports automatic child item generation, which helps you detect regions or decomposepages.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeBurst</strong></p></td>
<td><p>For folders only. <strong>WiaItemTypeBurst</strong> indicates that the images in this folder were taken in a continuous time sequence.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeHasAttachments</strong></p></td>
<td><p>WIA item that supports attachments and currently contains attachments.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeHPanorama</strong></p></td>
<td><p>WIA item that represents a horizontal panoramic image. This flag is valid only for items that also have the <strong>WiaItemTypeFolder</strong> flag set.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeTwainCapabilityPassThrough</strong></p></td>
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeTwainCapabilityPassThrough</strong> indicates that the WIA device is able to receive TWAIN capability data from the TWAIN compatibility layer. If this flag is set, any TWAIN capability that the TWAIN compatibility layer does not understand will be passed to the WIA driver. This flag is valid only for the root item of the WIA driver.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeVideo</strong></p></td>
<td><p>WIA item that supports streaming video.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeVPanorama</strong></p></td>
<td><p>WIA item that represents a vertical panoramic image. <strong>WiaItemTypeVPanorama</strong> is valid only for items that also have the <strong>WiaItemTypeFolder</strong> flag set.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

The following table describes the flags that are valid in Windows Vista, Windows XP, and later operating systems.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Flag</th>
<th>Definition</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeAudio</strong></p></td>
<td><p>WIA item that supports audio. <strong>WiaItemTypeAudio</strong> is valid only for items that also have the <strong>WiaItemTypeFile</strong> flag set.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeDeleted</strong></p></td>
<td><p>WIA item that is marked for deletion, has been deleted, does not exist, or has contents that are invalid.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeDevice</strong></p></td>
<td><p>WIA item that represents a connected device.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeDisconnected</strong></p></td>
<td><p>WIA item that represents a disconnected device.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeFile</strong></p></td>
<td><p>WIA item that supports file transfers.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeFolder</strong></p></td>
<td><p>WIA item that is a folder.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeFree</strong></p></td>
<td><p>WIA item that is uninitialized or has been deleted.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeGenerated</strong></p></td>
<td><p>WIA item that has been generated by an application or by the driver.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeImage</strong></p></td>
<td><p>WIA item that is an image file. <strong>WiaItemTypeImage</strong> is valid only for items that also have the <strong>WiaItemTypeFile</strong> flag set.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeRoot</strong></p></td>
<td><p>WIA item that is the root item of the WIA driver, which is the parent of all the feature items that the device supports.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeStorage</strong></p></td>
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeImage</strong> indicates additional storage for folders items. WIA drivers specify their items in terms of images and folders. No WIA properties exist that describe the characteristics of a storage item (such as remaining storage space, write speed, or type of media). You can add vendor-specific properties that expose this information. These properties are accessible only to applications or extensions that you write to recognize them.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeTransfer</strong></p></td>
<td><p>WIA item that can be used to transfer data.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeTwainCapabilityPassThrough</strong></p></td>
<td><p>WIA device that is able to receive TWAIN capability data from the TWAIN compatibility layer. If <strong>WiaItemTypeTwainCapabilityPassThrough</strong> is set, any TWAIN capability that the TWAIN compatibility layer does not understand will be passed to the WIA driver. This flag is valid only for the root item of the WIA driver.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

The following table describes the flags that are valid in Windows Vista and later versions of the operating system only.

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th>Flag</th>
<th>Definition</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeDocument</strong></p></td>
<td><p><strong><em>WiaItemTypeDocument</em></strong> <em>is obsolete and should not be used.</em></p>
<p>The WIA item is a document file in one of the document formats that the [<strong>WIA_IPA_FORMAT</strong>](wia-ipa-format.md) property contains.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeProgrammableDataSource</strong></p></td>
<td><p>The WIA item is a programmable data source and follows a set of predefined configuration rules, which are based on the [<strong>WIA_IPA_ITEM_CATEGORY</strong>](wia-ipa-item-category.md) property.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeMask</strong></p></td>
<td><p>A flag mask for all other defined flag values. This flag is not an item type by itself.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeRemoved</strong></p></td>
<td><p>The WIA item has been removed from the item tree.</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p><strong>WiaItemTypeRoot</strong></p></td>
<td><p>The WIA item is the root item of the WIA driver, which is the parent to all of the feature items that the device supports.</p></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

 

Requirements
------------

<table>
<colgroup>
<col width="50%" />
<col width="50%" />
</colgroup>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td><p>Header</p></td>
<td>Wiadef.h (include Wiadef.h)</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

## <span id="see_also"></span>See also


[**WIA\_IPA\_FORMAT**](wia-ipa-format.md)

[**WIA\_IPA\_ITEM\_CATEGORY**](wia-ipa-item-category.md)

[**wiasCreateDrvItem**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff549160)

 

 

[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20%5Bimage\image%5D:%20WIA_IPA_ITEM_FLAGS%20%20RELEASE:%20%2811/13/2017%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")





