---
title: Plug and Play Support for I2C
description: This section describes plug and play support for devices that support HID over the I<sup>2</sup>C.
ms.date: 01/11/2024
---

# Plug and play support for I2C

This article describes plug and play support for devices that support HID over the I<sup>2</sup>C transport.

## Driver Loading

Windows loads the HID I<sup>2</sup>C class driver based on a compatible identifier match between a hardware identifier and the INF. The identifier is generated by the Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI). The hardware identifier is generated for the I<sup>2</sup>C device node in ACPI. All HID I<sup>2</sup>C compatible devices must expose the compatibility identifier, in addition to a unique hardware identifier.

The ACPI 5.0 Specification includes support for HID Class Devices. the ACPI definitions for HID I<sup>2</sup>C are as follows.

| Field | Value | ACPI object | Format | Comments |
|--- | --- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| Compatible ID | PNP0C50 | \_CID | String in the format of ACPI0C50 or PNP0C50 |CompatibleID |
| Hardware ID | Vendor Specific | \_HID | String in the format of VVVVdddd (e.g NVDA0001) | VendorID + DeviceID |
| Subsystem | Vendor Specific | \_SUB | String in the format of VVVVssss (e.g INTL1234) | SubVendorID + SubSystemID |
| Hardware Revision | Vendor Specific | \_HRV | 0xRRRR (2byte revision) | RevisionID |
| Current Resource Settings | Vendor Specific | \_CRS | Byte stream | Must include I2CSerialBus and GPIO\_INT for I2C controller and GPIO interrupts resp. |
| Device Specific Method | GUID {3CDFF6F7-4267-4555-AD05-B30A3D8938DE} | \_DSM | Package | Defines a structure that contains the HID Descriptor address. |

 Every HID I<sup>2</sup>C device must provide the following mandatory fields:

- Compatible ID
- Hardware ID
- Hardware Revision
- Current Resource Settings
- Device Specific Method

Refer to the Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) 5.0 specification for additional information.

The following provides an example of a hardware IDs and compatible IDs for a random HID I<sup>2</sup>C device. These details are based on a sample device that reports itself as a HID with one top-level collection of class "vendor specific".

Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) generates the following Hardware IDs and Compatible IDs to load the HID I<sup>2</sup>C Transport driver:

**Hardware Identifiers**: Compatible Identifiers

**ACPI\\Vid\_xxxx&Pid\_yyyy&Rev\_zzzz;**: ACPI\\PNP0C50

**ACPI\\Vid\_xxxxPid\_yyyy;**:

**ACPI\\xxxxyyyy;**:

In the previous example, the Hardware ID was generated by using the values extracted from the \_HID ACPI method for the sample device. The Compatible ID is generated by using the values extracted from the \_CID ACPI method for the sample device. The Compatible ID for a HID over I2C must always be PNP0C50 for version 1.0.

**Note**  If you supply an INF, you should only use the hardware identifiers in the left column of the previous table. (Do not use the compatible identifier in the right column.)

The Hardware ID for the HID Client device node generated by the HIDClass.sys component is as follows:

**Hardware Identifier**: Compatible Identifier

**HID\\VEN\_MSFT&DEV\_0010&REV\_0002&Col01;**: N/A

**-HID\\VEN\_MSFT&DEV\_0010&Col01 HID\\MSFT0010&Col01;**: N/A

**-HID\\\*MSFT0010Col01**: N/A

**-HID\_DEVICE\_UP:FF00\_U:0001;**: N/A

**-HID\_DEVICE**: N/A

The Hardware ID is generated by HIDClass.sys and is identical for all transports. This identifier is based on values passed to HIDClass.sys from HIDI2C.sys (extracted from ACPI).

### Device enumeration sequence

Once a HID I<sup>2</sup>C device driver (HIDI2C.Sys ) is loaded, it starts to communicate with the device over the I<sup>2</sup>C bus. The first operation the driver performs is the device enumeration sequence.

The following list gives the enumeration sequence. Note that the order of this list may change in future versions of Windows.

1. Retrieve [ACPI Source Language (ASL)](https://uefi.org/htmlspecs/ACPI_Spec_6_4_html/19_ASL_Reference/ACPI_Source_Language_Reference.html?highlight=acpi%20source%20language)  code for HID I<sup>2</sup>C DEVICE from System BIOS.

2. Retrieve HID Descriptor from the Device.
    - Write HID Descriptor Address
    - Read HID Descriptor

3. Issue a SET\_POWER to the Device.
    - Write SET\_POWER Command

4. Issue a RESET (Host Initiated Reset) to the Device.
    - Write RESET Command
    - Device asserts GPIO interrupt
    - Read value (0x00 0x00) from input register

5. Retrieve report descriptor from the device.
    - Write report descriptor address
    - Read report descriptor

If the HOST fails to successfully complete any of steps 1-5 with the DEVICE, the HIDI<sup>2</sup>C driver may load with error value of *Code 10*. There is no retry logic built into any of these commands.

**Note:** Steps 4 and 5 may be done in parallel to optimize for time on I<sup>2</sup>C. Since report descriptors are (a) static and (b) quite long, Windows 8 may issue a request for 5 while it is waiting for a response from the device on 4.

## Supported HID I<sup>2</sup>C commands

HIDI2C.SYS driver supports the following commands:

| Command | How it's used | When it's used |
| --- | ---- | --- |
| Reset | Windows supports the Host Initiated Reset. | Windows will issue this command during the following scenarios - device initialization - disable/enable - uninstall/reinstall |
| Get/Set\_Report | Windows supports the Get/Set\_Report commands. | Windows will issue this command during the following scenarios - when a HID client driver issues a get/set feature report request - when a HID client driver issues a synchronous input/output report |
| Set\_Power | Windows supports the Set\_Power command | Windows will issue this command during the following scenarios - when the system transitions to a low power S3 / connected standby state - when the system is shut off. |
