---
title: NT Device Names
author: windows-driver-content
description: NT Device Names
MS-HAID:
- 'DevObjts\_3b145a4d-1208-401b-93a6-331db7c35b99.xml'
- 'kernel.nt\_device\_names'
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: dfcc7338-7c4d-4b4c-9a13-c76bfe82f5a9
keywords: ["NT device names WDK kernel", "device objects WDK kernel , named", "named device objects WDK kernel", "device names WDK kernel", "non-WDM driver device names WDK kernel"]
---

# NT Device Names


## <a href="" id="ddk-nt-device-names-kg"></a>


A named device object has a name of the form **\\Device\\***DeviceName*. This is known as the *NT device name* of the device object.

### Device Names for WDM Drivers

WDM drivers do not name their device objects directly. Instead, the system imposes a uniform naming scheme that ensures that device names do not conflict between drivers. The naming scheme for WDM drivers is as follows.

-   The PDO for a device is named. The bus driver requests named PDOs for the devices it enumerates. The bus driver specifies the FILE\_AUTOGENERATED\_DEVICE\_NAME device characteristic when it creates the device object. For more information, see [Specifying Device Characteristics](specifying-device-characteristics.md). The system then automatically generates the device name.

-   FDOs and filter DOs are not named. Function and filter drivers do not request a name when creating the device object.

Any I/O request to a named device object automatically goes to the top object in that device object's stack. Thus, only the PDO is required to be named. User-mode applications do not refer to WDM device objects by name; instead, applications access the device object through its [*device interface*](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff556277#wdkgloss-device-interface). For more information, see [Device Interface Classes](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff541339).

Driver writers must not name more than one object in a device stack. The operating system checks security settings based on the named object. If two different objects are named and have different security descriptors, the I/O requests that are sent to the object with the weaker security descriptor can reach the device object with the stronger security descriptor.

### Device Names for non-WDM Drivers

A non-WDM driver must explicitly specify a name for any named device objects. The driver must create at least one named device object in the **\\Device** object directory to receive I/O requests. The driver specifies the device name as the *DeviceName* parameter to [**IoCreateDeviceSecure**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff548407) when creating the device object.

 

 


--------------------
[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20%5Bkernel\kernel%5D:%20NT%20Device%20Names%20%20RELEASE:%20%286/14/2017%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")


