---
title: Specifying Device Characteristics
author: windows-driver-content
description: Specifying Device Characteristics
MS-HAID:
- 'DevObjts\_3231b805-2b74-4578-adbd-978c04ee76fd.xml'
- 'kernel.specifying\_device\_characteristics'
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: 8b73ed62-d611-4515-b9d0-8e0a37555a1a
keywords: ["device objects WDK kernel , device characteristics", "device characteristics WDK device objects", "flags WDK device objects", "device stacks WDK kernel , device characteristics"]
---

# Specifying Device Characteristics


## <a href="" id="ddk-specifying-device-characteristics-kg"></a>


Each device object can have one or more device characteristics. Device characteristics are stored as flags in the **Characteristics** member of the device object's [**DEVICE\_OBJECT**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff543147) structure.

Most drivers specify only the FILE\_DEVICE\_SECURE\_OPEN characteristic. This ensures that the same security settings are applied to any open request into the device's namespace. For more information, see [Controlling Device Namespace Access](controlling-device-namespace-access.md).

The FILE\_AUTOGENERATED\_DEVICE\_NAME is only used for PDOs. The FILE\_FLOPPY\_DISKETTE, FILE\_REMOVABLE\_MEDIA, and FILE\_WRITE\_ONCE\_MEDIA characteristics are specific to storage devices. For a description of the possible device characteristic flags, see the description of the **Characteristics** member of [**DEVICE\_OBJECT**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff543147).

Certain device characteristics, such as FILE\_AUTOGENERATED\_DEVICE\_NAME, only apply to individual device objects. Drivers can specify a setting for the device characteristics for individual device objects when they create the device object by calling [**IoCreateDevice**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff548397) or [**IoCreateDeviceSecure**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff548407).

The following characteristics apply to the entire device stack:

FILE\_DEVICE\_SECURE\_OPEN

FILE\_FLOPPY\_DISKETTE

FILE\_READ\_ONLY\_DEVICE

FILE\_REMOVABLE\_MEDIA

FILE\_WRITE\_ONCE\_MEDIA

Drivers can set device characteristics that apply to the entire device stack by calling **IoCreateDevice** or **IoCreateDeviceSecure**. Alternatively, device characteristics that apply to the entire device stack can be set in the registry, for either the device or for the device's setup class. (For more information, see [Setting Device Object Properties in the Registry](setting-device-object-properties-in-the-registry.md).)

The PnP manager determines the registry setting for device characteristics as follows.

-   If a value is specified for the individual device, the PnP manager uses that value;

-   Otherwise, if a value is specified for the device setup class, the PnP manager uses that value;

-   Otherwise, the PnP manager uses a value of zero as the registry setting.

If a device characteristic that applies to the entire device stack is set in the registry, or if it is set for any FDO or filter DO in the stack, then the PnP manager sets it for every device object in the stack. (If the device is [*raw mode*](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff556331#wdkgloss-raw-mode) capable, and thus does not have an FDO, then the PnP manager uses the PDO instead.)

 

 


--------------------
[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20%5Bkernel\kernel%5D:%20Specifying%20Device%20Characteristics%20%20RELEASE:%20%286/14/2017%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")


