---
title: Creating Graphics INF Files
description: Creating Graphics INF Files
ms.assetid: e56d4881-5ad2-41fc-a6fb-bc72c5106361
keywords:
- display driver model WDK Windows 2000 , graphics
- Windows 2000 display driver model WDK , graphics
- video miniport drivers WDK Windows 2000 , graphics
- display drivers WDK Windows 2000 , graphics
- INF files WDK Windows 2000 display
- graphics INF files WDK Windows 2000 display
- geninf.exe
ms.author: windowsdriverdev
ms.date: 04/20/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-devices
---

# Creating Graphics INF Files


## <span id="ddk_creating_graphics_inf_files_gg"></span><span id="DDK_CREATING_GRAPHICS_INF_FILES_GG"></span>


NT-based operating system display and video miniport drivers must be installed using an INF file. The Driver Development Kit (DDK) provides a tool called *geninf.exe* that lets you generate an INF file for your display and video miniport drivers.

**Note**   The *geninf.exe* tool is not available in the Windows Driver Kit (WDK), which replaces the DDK.

 

When *geninf.exe* is run, it displays a number of dialogs that prompt you for information, such as the company name and the names of the display drivers and video miniport driver. *Geninf.exe* then generates an INF file from this information.

**Note**   The file generated by *geninf.exe* might not be a fully valid INF file. *Geninf.exe* produces an INF file that will likely need custom registry settings added for each device described in the INF file.

 

If your miniport driver maps more than 8 MB of device memory, you should manually edit the INF file to include the section and appropriate entries described in [INF GeneralConfigData Section](inf-generalconfigdata-section.md).

When you run *geninf.exe*, select "Display" when prompted to choose the device class. An INF file marked as **Class=Display** will be interpreted by the system-supplied display class installer during driver installation. This ensures that all registry entries associated with a video driver are properly initialized.

An INF file of the class **Display** can install only the following files on the system:

-   A single miniport driver

-   A single display driver

-   Control panel extension DLLs

No other types of driver or application files can be installed from an INF file of class **Display**.

### <span id="Limitations_of_geninf.exe"></span><span id="limitations_of_geninf.exe"></span><span id="LIMITATIONS_OF_GENINF.EXE"></span>Limitations of geninf.exe

You cannot use *geninf.exe* to generate:

-   An INF file that supports more than one architecture.

-   An INF file that supports Windows 95/98/Me or Windows NT version 4.0 or previous.

-   A [*mirror driver*](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff556308#wdkgloss-mirror-driver) INF file. Use the INF file provided with the *mirror* sample driver as a template. See [Mirror Driver INF File](mirror-driver-inf-file.md) for more details.

-   A monitor INF file. Use the INF named *monsamp.inf* as a template. See [Monitor INF File Sections](monitor-inf-file-sections.md) for more details.

These sample INF files are both shipped with the Windows Driver Kit (WDK).

See [Creating an INF File](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff549520) and [INF File Sections and Directives](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff547433) for detailed information when updating a sample INF file.

 

 

[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20[display\display]:%20Creating%20Graphics%20INF%20Files%20%20RELEASE:%20%282/10/2017%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")




