---
title: Shading Requirements
description: Shading Requirements
ms.assetid: 6c4f3dee-a955-4140-8b64-e9289094f530
keywords:
- shading WDK Direct3D
- flat shading WDK Direct3D
- Gouraud shading WDK Direct3D
- specular highlighting WDK Direct3D
- alpha blending WDK Direct3D
- dithering WDK Windows 2000 display
- color-key WDK Direct3D
- transparency WDK Direct3D
- blending WDK Direct3D
- highlighting WDK Direct3D
- D3DPRIMCAPS
ms.date: 04/20/2017
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Shading Requirements


## <span id="ddk_shading_requirements_gg"></span><span id="DDK_SHADING_REQUIREMENTS_GG"></span>


The requirements for flat shading, Gouraud shading, specular highlighting, alpha blending, dithering, and color-key are as follows:

### <span id="flat_shading"></span><span id="FLAT_SHADING"></span>Flat Shading

The D3DPSHADECAPS\_COLORFLATRGB bit in the **dwShadeCap** member of the [**D3DPRIMCAPS**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff549034) structure must be set for the appropriate primitive type (line or triangle) in order to indicate that flat shading is supported for that primitive type.

For all primitive types except triangle fans, the color, specular (if supported) and alpha data come from the first vertex of each primitive. For triangle fans, the second vertex is used. These colors remain constant across the entire triangle (that is, they are not interpolated).

### <span id="gouraud_shading"></span><span id="GOURAUD_SHADING"></span>Gouraud Shading

The **dwShadeCaps** member of the [**D3DPRIMCAPS**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff549034) structure must have the D3DPSHADECAPS\_COLORGOURAUDRGB bit set for the appropriate primitive type (line or triangle) to indicate that Gouraud interpolation of colors is supported. The color and specular components are both linearly interpolated between vertices.

For all primitives, the color data must use linear interpolation between the vertices of the primitive, and must conform to an image generated by the reference rasterizer. Furthermore, all color and alpha components must be interpolated in the same fashion if they are present. For example, it is not valid to use Gouraud interpolation of the RGB components of a color while using flat shading for the alpha component. An exception is transmitting the fog component via the alpha component of the specular color, which should never be flat shaded.

Perspective correction of iterated color components is encouraged. Note that the reference rasterizer in the latest Direct X release already does perspective correction of color components. This is taken into account in current testing procedures.

### <span id="specular_highlighting"></span><span id="SPECULAR_HIGHLIGHTING"></span>Specular Highlighting

If specular highlighting support is exposed, then one or both of the following flags must be set in the **dwShadeCaps** member of the [**D3DPRIMCAPS**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff549034) structure for the appropriate primitive type (line or triangle):

-   D3DPSHADECAPS\_SPECULARFLATRGB must be set if flat shading is supported.

-   D3DPSHADECAPS\_SPECULARGOURAUDRGB must be set if Gouraud shading is supported.

Also, it must be possible to enable or disable specular highlighting by setting the appropriate value of the D3DRENDERSTATE\_SPECULARENABLE render state.

Specular highlighting must be full color, and must be capable of producing the full range of colors available for the render target. Monochromatic specular highlighting is not sufficient to meet this requirement.

The D3DPSHADECAPS\_SPECULARFLATMONO and D3DPSHADECAPS\_SPECULARGOURAUDMONO flags are not to be used to indicate monochromatic specular highlighting. They indicate only that specular highlighting is supported in RAMP mode. There is no cap that can indicate that an adapter supports only monochromatic specular highlights in RGB mode. If your adapter supports only monochromatic specular highlights in RGB mode, you should not set the SPECULARFLATRGB or SPECULARGOURAUDRGB caps. With the monomodes, the hardware should just interpolate the blue channel of the specular components as a white intensity. This is controlled by the D3DRENDERSTATE\_MONOENABLE render state.

To properly implement specular highlights, a second set of interpolants is required. However, hardware parts that support z-buffering and blending can often emulate specular highlights by doing a second blending pass over the triangle with the z comparison function set to D3DCMP\_EQUAL (see the D3DCMPFUNC enumerated type in the DirectX SDK documentation). This second pass would do a blend to add the interpolated specular component to the pixel written during the first pass; values that exceed the maximum should saturate to white.

### <span id="alpha_blending"></span><span id="ALPHA_BLENDING"></span>Alpha Blending

To expose support for alpha blending, the following flags must be set in the **dwShadeCaps** member of the [**D3DPRIMCAPS**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff549034) structure for the appropriate primitive type (line or triangle):

-   D3DPSHADECAPS\_ALPHAFLATBLEND must be set if flat shading is supported with alpha.

-   D3DPSHADECAPS\_ALPHAGOURAUDBLEND must be set if Gouraud shading is supported with alpha.

If alpha blending is supported, it must be possible to enable or disable it by setting the appropriate value of the D3DRENDERSTATE\_ALPHABLENDENABLE render state.

Alpha blending, or true transparency (from the 3D space), is the process of modulating incoming color by the value of the data that is already located in the frame buffer. This render state has modes that can be set by the D3DRENDERSTATE\_SRCBLEND and D3DRENDERSTATE\_DESTBLEND render states.

When the alpha value for a blending operation is not available, it must be assumed to be 1.0 (opaque). An example of when this is possible is blending with textures that have no alpha channel.

If the target to which the resultant pixel is written contains an alpha channel, the alpha value resulting from any alpha blending operation must be written to that channel, allowing proper accumulation of transparency.

### <span id="dithering"></span><span id="DITHERING"></span>Dithering

If dithering is supported on a particular primitive type (line or triangle), the **dwRasterCaps** member of the [**D3DPRIMCAPS**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff549034) structure must have the D3DPRASTERCAPS\_DITHER flag set. The feature must be controllable by means of the D3DRENDERSTATE\_DITHERENABLE render state.

If dithering is supported, it may not default to always off or always on.

### <span id="color_key"></span><span id="COLOR_KEY"></span>Color-key

Color-key is related to texture transparency and the D3DPTEXTURECAPS\_TRANSPARENCY cap (see the **dwTextureCaps** member of the [**D3DPRIMCAPS**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff549034) structure).

Color-key transparency, which is used to create 2D sprites, replaces some colors of an object with the colors that are beneath them in the frame buffer. The driver should make it possible for an application to enable color-key for an entire scene, but only use the color-key on certain surfaces with the attached color-key values instead of turning the color-key on and off for each surface.

Colorkeying is enabled if the D3DRENDERSTATE\_COLORKEYENABLE render state is set to **TRUE** and the texture surface has the DDRAWISURF\_HASCKEYSRCBLT bit set

Color-key is enabled if the D3DRENDERSTATE\_COLORKEYENABLE render state is set to **TRUE** and the texture surface has the DDRAWISURF\_HASCKEYSRCBLT bit set. (See the **dwFlags** member of the [**DD\_SURFACE\_LOCAL**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff551733) structure for more information.) Applications create a texture surface that uses DDSD\_CKSRCBLT and then call the **IDirect3DDevice7::SetRenderState** method with D3DRENDERSTATE\_COLORKEYENABLE and **TRUE**. Both of these must be true for color-key to occur, and applications must be permitted to leave the render state **TRUE** all the time and still selectively use color-key for a subset of a frame's textures (that is, those that have the DDRAWISURF\_HASCKEYSRCBLT bit set). It is up to the driver to correctly handle this behavior. For more information about **IDirect3DDevice7::SetRenderState**, see the Direct3D SDK documentation.

 

 





