---
title: VRAM Capture Properties
author: windows-driver-content
description: VRAM Capture Properties
MS-HAID:
- 'gpucap\_a8da9b19-6613-48db-9ef8-4fe1d440b59f.xml'
- 'stream.vram\_capture\_properties'
MSHAttr:
- 'PreferredSiteName:MSDN'
- 'PreferredLib:/library/windows/hardware'
ms.assetid: e3ab3a10-42af-488f-9b13-d2c6d5aac615
keywords: ["VRAM capture WDK AVStream , properties", "capturing to system memory WDK AVStream", "pin VRAM processing WDK AVStream", "VRAM capture WDK AVStream , request sequence"]
---

# VRAM Capture Properties


A pin-centric AVStream minidriver must support several properties in order for it to capture to VRAM. This section describes the sequence of requests that the minidriver receives before and during VRAM processing.

Before capture is initiated, the KS proxy sends a [**KSPROPERTY\_PREFERRED\_CAPTURE\_SURFACE**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff565209) get-property request. The minidriver should return different values depending on whether the driver is capturing to system memory or VRAM.

### Capturing to System Memory

To capture to system memory, return KS\_CAPTURE\_ALLOC\_SYSTEM\_AGP.

The capture driver then receives a [**KSPROPERTY\_CURRENT\_CAPTURE\_SURFACE**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff565130) set-property request with a system memory value type. The capture driver now acts as bus-master DMA device and places the data directly into system memory.

In this mode, the capture driver receives system memory buffers in the [*AVStrMiniPinProcess*](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff556351) callback function of the output pin.

For information about how to implement DMA in your pin process callback, see [Packet-based DMA in AVStream](packet-based-dma-in-avstream.md).

To capture with multiple output pins (for instance, separate video, audio, and VBI pins), each pin should support the VRAM properties and processing as described earlier. The proxy generates a separate thread for each pin.

### Capturing to VRAM

If your driver supports VRAM capture, return **KS\_CAPTURE\_ALLOC\_VRAM** in response to KSPROPERTY\_PREFERRED\_CAPTURE\_SURFACE.

The minidriver next receives a [**KSPROPERTY\_DISPLAY\_ADAPTER\_GUID**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff565134) get-property request, querying for the display adapter's GUID.

Obtain the adapter GUID from the vendor-supplied graphics miniport driver. The [**DXGK\_INTERFACESPECIFICDATA**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff561134) structure contains the adapter GUID to return in the property request. This structure is generated by the DirectX graphics kernel (DXGK) subsystem and is passed to the miniport driver when the adapter is initialized.

If the pin supports VRAM transport and the GUIDs of the display adapter and downstream filter match, the KS proxy module is selected as the allocator. The proxy notifies the capture pin about selection of VRAM surface transport between the pins by setting the [**KSPROPERTY\_CURRENT\_CAPTURE\_SURFACE**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff565130) property with the selected surface type for the capture.

If the pin receives KS\_CAPTURE\_ALLOC\_VRAM, it will then receive VRAM processing requests.

VRAM processing requests consist of two parts. First, the capture driver receives a get-request of [**KSPROPERTY\_MAP\_CAPTURE\_HANDLE\_TO\_VRAM\_ADDRESS**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff565177). The get handler receives an IRP that contains the kernel-mode VRAM surface handle.

The capture driver or the display miniport driver should map the VRAM surface handle to an actual VRAM physical address. The VRAM surface handle *does not remain valid; do not* cache it for later use.

Return the mapped address in the [**VRAM\_SURFACE\_INFO\_PROPERTY\_S**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff568785) that was provided in the property request. The capture driver can issue an IOCTL to request the mapping from the display miniport driver.

Second, the capture filter's *AVStrMiniPinProcess* is called when a pin has data to process.

The minidriver should now call [**KsPinGetLeadingEdgeStreamPointer**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff563513) to acquire and lock the leading edge stream pointer for this pin. This function returns a pointer to a [**KSSTREAM\_POINTER**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff567139) structure.

This stream pointer structure contains a pointer to a [**KSSTREAM\_HEADER**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff567138).

In the **Data** member of the stream header, find a pointer to a [**VRAM\_SURFACE\_INFO**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff568783) structure.

This structure contains the physical address returned in response to KSPROPERTY\_MAP\_CAPTURE\_HANDLE\_TO\_VRAM\_ADDRESS. The **hSurface** member that represents the handle is **NULL**.

The capture driver should:

-   Program the capture hardware with the VRAM physical address.

-   Handle the video frame completion.

-   Fill in the **cbCaptured** member of VRAM\_SURFACE\_INFO with the number of bytes copied into the VRAM surface. Do not set the **DataUsed** member of KSSTREAM\_HEADER with the number of bytes captured. Instead, set **DataUsed** to sizeof(VRAM\_SURFACE\_INFO).

-   If your capture driver performs timestamping, set **PresentationTime**, **Duration**, and, if relevant, **OptionsFlags** in KSSTREAM\_HEADER.

-   Call [**KsStreamPointerAdvanceOffsets**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff567126) to continue processing or delete all clones and complete the request by calling [**KsStreamPointerDelete**](https://msdn.microsoft.com/library/windows/hardware/ff567130).

The **CCapturePin::ProcessD3DSurface** method in *Capture.cpp* of the [AVStream Simulated Hardware Sample Driver (AVSHwS)](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=256083) in the MSDN Code Gallery shows one way to implement this callback for VRAM support.

 

 


--------------------
[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20%5Bstream\stream%5D:%20VRAM%20Capture%20Properties%20%20RELEASE:%20%288/23/2016%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")


