---
title: Supported PrintTicket Features
description: This section provides information about the PrintTicket features that are supported by the standard XPS filters.
ms.assetid: 6D1AD770-D4BA-4BDC-886A-C5C36A09BB0E
ms.date: 04/20/2017
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Supported PrintTicket Features


This section provides information about the PrintTicket features that are supported by the standard XPS filters.

All these features have the effect of causing the XPS filter to vary the PDL commands that are generated. Whether the PDL commands are generated by the filter itself or they are specified by the device GPD/PPD, these features still cause the XPS filter to vary the PDL commands. All the elements (Features, Options, ScoredProperties, Parameters) that are referenced in the following sections can be found in the print schema keywords (psk) namespace.

## PageMediaSize


This Feature describes the dimensions of the media sheet used for the printed output. In addition to the name, each Option can contain two Scored Properties: MediaSizeWidth and MediaSizeHeight. These describe the physical size of the media. Supported Options are any options with a corresponding GPD/PPD file entry.

For PCL6/GPD, if the PrintTicket option is CustomMediaSize, then the PageMediaSizeMediaSizeWith and PageMediaSizeMediaSizeHeight parameters are used to obtain the dimensions of the media.

For PostScript/PPD, if the PrintTicket option is PSCustomMediaSize then the PageMediaSizePSWith and PageMediaSizePSHeight parameters are used to obtain the dimensions of the media. The PCL6 generated for the selected media type is specified by the GPD PageSize Feature value. The following list shows the order in which the GPD is examined to determine the PageMediaSize option to use:

1. If PrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the PageMediaSize Option.

2. The following [Default PageMediaSize mappings](default-pagemediasize-mappings.md) are used.

3. The name attribute of the PageSize Option matches the name of the Option in the GPD.

During the rendering process, the filter will replace PhysPaperWidth in any GPD command with the width of the paper specified by the MediaSizeWidth ScoredProperty or the PageMediaSizeMediaSizeWidth Parameter.

The filter will also replace PhysPaperLength in any GPD command with the length of the paper specified by the MediaSizeHeight ScoredProperty or the PageMediaSizeMediaSizeHeight Parameter.

The PostScript generated for the selected media type is specified by the PPD PageSize Feature. The Option in the PPD to use is selected in the following order:

1. If MSPrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the PageMediaSize Option.

2. The name attribute of the PageSize Option matches the name of the Option in the PPD.

## PageMediaType


This Feature describes characteristics of the media sheet available to the device, such as coatings, media material, and media weight. Supported Options are any with a corresponding GPD/PPD entry.

The PCL6 generated for the selected media type is specified by the GPD MediaType Feature. The Option in the GPD to use is selected in the following order:

1. If PrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the PageMediaType Option.

2. The following default mappings are used:

| PageMediaType value            | GPD/PPD file entry |
|--------------------------------|--------------------|
| PrintTicket PhotographicGlossy | GPD GLOSSY         |
| PrintTicket Plain              | GPD STANDARD       |
| PrintTicket Transparency       | GPD TRANSPARENCY   |

 

3. The name attribute of the PageMediaType Option matches the name of the Option in the GPD.

The PostScript generated for the selected media type is specified by the PPD MediaType Feature. The Option in the PPD to use is selected in the following order:

1. If MSPrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the PageMediaType Option.

2. The name attribute of the PageMediaType Option matches the name of the Option in the PPD.

## PageMediaColor


This Feature describes the color of the media sheet. Supported Options are any with a corresponding GPD/PPD entry.

The PCL6 generated for the selected media color is specified by the GPD Feature containing \*PrintSchemaKeywordMap: “PageMediaColor”. The Option in the GPD to use is selected in the following order:

1. If PrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the PageMediaColor Option.

2. The name attribute of the PageMediaColor Option matches the name of the Option in the GPD.

The PostScript generated for the selected media color is specified by the PPD MediaColor feature. The Option in the PPD to use is selected in the following order:
1. If MSPrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the PageMediaColor Option.

2. The name attribute of the PageMediaColor Option matches the name of the Option in the PPD.

## JobInputBin


This feature describes the input location where media is pulled into the print device. The supported options are those with a corresponding GPD/PPD entry.

The PCL6 generated for the selected input tray is specified by the GPD InputBin feature. The Option in the GPD to use is selected in the following order:

1. If PrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the JobInputBin Option.

2. The following default mappings are used:

| JobInputBin value      | GPD/PPD file entry                  |
|------------------------|-------------------------------------|
| PrintTicket Cassette   | GPD AUTO,CASSETTE,ENVFEED,ENVMANUAL |
| PrintTicket AutoSelect | GPD FORMSOURCE                      |
| PrintTicket High       | GPD LARGECAPACITY,LARGEFMT,LOWER    |
| PrintTicket Manual     | GPD MANUAL,MIDDLE,SMALLFMT          |
| PrintTicket Tractor    | GPD TRACTOR,UPPER                   |

 

3. The name attribute of the PageMediaType Option matches the name of the Option in the GPD.

The PostScript generated for the selected input tray is specified by the PPD InputSlot feature. The Option in the PPD to use is selected in the following order:
1. If MSPrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the JobInputBin Option.

2. The name attribute of the JobInputBin option matches the name of the option in the PPD.

## PageOrientation


This feature indicates the rotation transform to use when converting from the content coordinate space to the media coordinate space for the sheet. The supported options are Portrait, Landscape, ReversePortrait, and ReverseLandscape.

The PCL6 generated for the selected orientation is specified by the GPD Orientation Feature. The Option in the GPD to use is selected in the following order:

1. If PrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the PageOrientation option.

2. The following default mappings are used:

| PageOrientation value        | GPD/PPD file entry   |
|------------------------------|----------------------|
| PrintTicket Portrait         | GPD PORTRAIT         |
| PrintTicket Landscape        | GPD LANDSCAPE\_CC90  |
| PrintTicket ReverseLandscape | GPD LANDSCAPE\_CC270 |

 

3. The name attribute of the PageOrientation Option matches the name of the option in the GPD.

The PostScript generated for the selected orientation is determined by the filter.
## PageOutputColor


This feature controls the color characteristics (color, monochrome) of the printed output for the destination document page. Supported Options are Color, Grayscale, and Monochrome.

The PCL6 generated for the selected output color is specified by the GPD ColorMode feature. The Option in the GPD to use is selected in the following order:

1. If PrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the PageOutputColor option.

2. The name attribute of the PageOutputColor option matches the name of the option in the GPD.

The PostScript generated for the selected output color is determined by the filter.
## PageResolution


This feature defines the available resolutions (in dots per inch) at which the device can produce output. The Print Schema does not specify any standard names for options of this feature; however, we do support two ScoredProperties regardless of the option name: ResolutionX, and ResolutionY. Supported Options are any with a corresponding GPD/PPD entry.

The PCL6 generated for the selected resolution is specified by the GPD Resolution Feature. The Option in the GPD to use is selected in the following order:

1. If PrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the PageResolution Option.

2. The name attribute of the PageResolution Option matches the name of the Option in the GPD.

During rendering, the filter will replace GraphicsXRes and TextXRes in any GPD command with the horizontal resolution specified by ResolutionX.
The filter will also replace GraphicsYRes and TextYRes in any GPD command with the vertical resolution specified by ResolutionY.

The PostScript generated for the selected resolution is specified by the PPD Resolution or JCLResolution Feature. The Option in the PPD to use is selected in the following order:

1. If MSPrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the PageResolution Option.

2. The name attribute of the PageResolution option matches the name of the option in the PPD.

## PageOutputQuality


This feature defines the print quality for the document page. Supported options are those with a corresponding GPD/PPD entry.

The PCL6 generated for the selected quality is specified by the GPD Feature with a PrintSchemaKeywordMap value of PageOutputQuality. The Option in the GPD to use is selected in the following order:

1. If PrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the PageOutputQuality Option.

2. The name attribute of the PageOutputQuality Option matches the name of the Option in the GPD.

The PostScript generated for the selected quality is specified by the PPD Feature with an MSPrintSchemaKeywordMap value of PageOutputQuality. The Option in the PPD to use is selected in the following order:
1. If MSPrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the PageOutputQuality Option.

2. The name attribute of the PageOutputQuality Option matches the name of the Option in the PPD.

## JobCopiesAllDocuments


This parameter specifies the number of times that all documents within the print job are output.

The PCL6 generated for the selected copies is determined by the filter. See the JobCollateAllDocuments feature for interaction with this parameter.

The PostScript generated for the selected copies is determined by the filter. See the JobCollateAllDocuments feature for interaction with this parameter.

## DocumentCopiesAllPages


This parameter specifies the number of page copies the associated document in the print job should output.

The PCL6 generated for the selected copies is determined by the filter. See the DocumentCollate feature for interaction with this parameter.

The PostScript generated for the selected copies is determined by the filter. See the DocumentCollate feature for interaction with this parameter.

## PageCopies


This parameter specifies how many copies of an individual source document page within a document should be output. Since the copy count only applies to the current page there is no collation.

The PCL6 generated for the selected copies is determined by the filter.

The PostScript generated for the selected copies is determined by the filter.

## DocumentCollate


This feature specifies the order in which the pages of the associated document in the print job appear in the printed output. The supported options are Collated and Uncollated.

The PCL6 generated for the selected collation is specified by the GPD Collate feature. The option in the GPD to use is selected in the following order:

1. If PrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the DocumentCollate Option.

2. The following default mappings are used:

| DocumentCollate value  | GPD/PPD file entry |
|------------------------|--------------------|
| PrintTicket Uncollated | GPD OFF            |
| PrintTicket Collated   | GPD ON             |

 

3. The name attribute of the DocumentCollate option matches the name of the option in the GPD.

**Note**  When DocumentCollate is set to Collated and the GPD Collate option contains a command, then it is assumed that the device can generate the collated copies. The *XPS.PCL6* filter will only generate 1 copy of the job and use the GPD command to instruct the device to generate the collated copies. The filter then replaces NumOfCopies in the GPD command with the number of copies specified by JobCopiesAllDocuments.

 

The PostScript generated for the selected collation is specified by the PPD Collate feature. The Option in the PPD to use is selected in the following order:
1. If MSPrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the DocumentCollate Option.

2. The following default mappings are used:

| DocumentCollate value  | GPD/PPD file entry |
|------------------------|--------------------|
| PrintTicket Uncollated | PPD False          |
| PrintTicket Collated   | PPD True           |

 

3. The name attribute of the DocumentCollate Option matches the name of the Option in the PPD.

**Note**  When DocumentCollate is set to Collated and the PPD contains the Collate feature, or a feature which is keyword mapped to DocumentCollate, then it is assumed that the device can generate the collated copies. The XPS.PS filter will only generate 1 copy of the job and use the PPD command to instruct the device to generate the collated copies.

 

## JobDuplexAllDocumentsContiguously


This feature specifies the duplex printing of the print job without consideration for document boundaries. If duplex printing is specified, all pages of all documents in the print job are duplex printed continuously without the insertion of blank pages between documents. The supported options are OneSided, TwoSidedShortEdge, and TwoSidedLongEdge.

The PCL6 generated for the selected duplex is specified by the GPD Duplex Feature. The option in the GPD to use is selected in the following order:

1. If PrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the JobDuplexAllDocumentsContiguously Option.

2. The following default mappings are used:

| JobDuplexAllDocumentsContiguously value | GPD/PPD file entry |
|-----------------------------------------|--------------------|
| PrintTicket OneSided                    | GPD NONE           |
| PrintTicket TwoSidedShortEdge           | GPD HORIZONTAL     |
| PrintTicket TwoSidedLongEdge            | GPD VERTICAL       |

 

3. The name attribute of the JobDuplexAllDocumentsContiguously option matches the name of the Option in the GPD.

The PostScript generated for the selected duplex is specified by the PPD Duplex Feature The option in the PPD to use is selected in the following order:
1. If MSPrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the JobDuplexAllDocumentsContiguously option.

2. The following default mappings are used:

| JobDuplexAllDocumentsContiguously value | GPD/PPD file entry |
|-----------------------------------------|--------------------|
| PrintTicket OneSided                    | PPD None           |
| PrintTicket TwoSidedShortEdge           | PPD DuplexTumble   |
| PrintTicket TwoSidedLongEdge            | PPD DuplexNoTumble |

 

3. The name attribute of the JobDuplexAllDocumentsContiguously option matches the name of the option in the PPD.

## DocumentDuplex


This feature controls duplex printing of the associated document in the print job. If this is specified, the printed output begins on the front side of a new sheet of media. Supported Options are OneSided, TwoSidedShortEdge, and TwoSidedLongEdge.

The PCL6 generated for the selected duplex is specified by the GPD Duplex Feature. The Option in the GPD to use is selected in the following order:

1. If PrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the DocumentDuplex Option.

2. The following default mappings are used:

| DocumentDuplex value          | GPD/PPD file entry |
|-------------------------------|--------------------|
| PrintTicket OneSided          | GPD NONE           |
| PrintTicket TwoSidedShortEdge | GPD HORIZONTAL     |
| PrintTicket TwoSidedLongEdge  | GPD VERTICAL       |

 

3. The name attribute of the DocumentDuplex Option matches the name of the Option in the GPD.

The PostScript generated for the selected duplex is specified by the PPD Duplex Feature. The Option in the PPD to use is selected in the following order:
1. If MSPrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the DocumentDuplex Option.

2. The following default mappings are used:

| DocumentDuplex value          | GPD/PPD file entry |
|-------------------------------|--------------------|
| PrintTicket OneSided          | PPD None           |
| PrintTicket TwoSidedShortEdge | PPD DuplexTumble   |
| PrintTicket TwoSidedLongEdge  | PPD DuplexNoTumble |

 

3. The name attribute of the DocumentDuplex Option matches the name of the Option in the PPD.

## DocumentNUp


This feature specifies that the content of multiple pages should be printed onto each sheet of the physical media. And the printing should be done in such a way that the content from different documents is not printed onto the same sheet. The Print Schema Specification does not specify a name for this Option; however the Option does support the ScoredProperty and PagesPerSheet values that specify the number of pages that will be placed on one side of the physical media. The supported values of PagesPerSheet are 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 9, 12, 16, 25 and 32 with the physical page orientation being rotated for 2, 6, 8, 12 and 32.

The PCL6 generated for the selected N-Up is determined by the filter.

The PostScript generated for the selected N-Up is determined by the filter.

**JobOutputBin**

This feature describes the location on the print device where media is deposited after it has been printed. The supported options are those with a corresponding GPD/PPD entry.

The PCL6 generated for the selected output bin is specified by the GPD OutputBin Feature. The Option in the GPD to use is selected in the following order:

1. If PrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the \[Job|Document|Page\]OutputBin Option.

2. The name attribute of the \[Job|Document|Page\]OutputBin Option matches the name of the Option in the GPD.

The PostScript generated for the selected duplex is specified by the PPD OutputBin Feature. The Option in the PPD to use is selected in the following order:
1. If MSPrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the \[Job|Document|Page\]OutputBin Option.

2. The name attribute of the \[Job|Document|Page\]OutputBin Option matches the name of the Option in the PPD.

## JobBindAllDocuments


This feature describes the method of binding for the printed sheets in the print job. All documents in the print job should be bound together. Supported Options include: None, BindBottom, BindLeft, BindRight, BindTop, Booklet, EdgeStitchBottom, EdgeStitchLeft, EdgeStitchRight and EdgeStitchTop.

When Booklet is selected the filter output is formatted as 2-Up, with the pages re-ordered such that when the stack of sheets for the job is folded in half the pages are in the proper order for a book.

When the BindingGutter ScoredProperty is specified for Booklet, the filter enforces a center margin (from the center of the paper to the edge of the scaled printable area) that is at least as large as specified by the JobBindAllDocumentsGutter parameter.

When the BindingGutter ScoredProperty is specified for BindLeft, or EdgeStitchLeft the filter shifts the front side of the sheet to the right as specified by the JobBindAllDocumentsGutter parameter. Content on the right side that now falls outside the printable area will be clipped. Content on the back side of the sheet will be clipped on the right edge as specified by the JobBindAllDocumentsGutter parameter.

When the BindingGutter ScoredProperty is specified for BindTop, EdgeStitchTop the filter shifts the content of both the front and back sides of the sheet toward the bottom as specified by the JobBindAllDocumentsGutter parameter. Content on the bottom that now falls outside the printable area will be clipped.

When the BindingGutter ScoredProperty is specified for BindRight or EdgeStitchRight the filter clips the content on the front side of the sheet on the right as specified by the JobBindAllDocumentsGutter Parameter. Content on the back side of the sheet will be shifted to the left as specified by the JobBindAllDocumentsGutter Parameter. Content on the left side that now falls outside the printable area will be clipped.

When the BindingGutter ScoredProperty is specified for BindBottom or EdgeStitchBottom, the filter shifts the content of both the front and back sides of the sheet toward the top as specified by the JobBindAllDocumentsGutter parameter. Content on the top that now falls outside the printable area will be clipped.

**Note**  The binding edge is the specified edge based on the orientation of the first page of the first document in the job. For all other options, BindingGutter is ignored.

 

If the GPD file does not specify a command for the selected option, then the PCL6 generated for the selected binding is determined by the filter.

If the PPD file does not specify an invocation command for the selected option, then the PostScript generated for the selected binding is determined by the filter.

## DocumentBinding


This feature describes the method to use when binding the printed sheets of the associated document in the print job. All pages in the document should be bound together. Supported Options include: None, BindBottom, BindLeft, BindRight, BindTop, Booklet, EdgeStitchBottom, EdgeStitchLeft, EdgeStitchRight, and EdgeStitchTop.

When Booklet is selected the filter output will be formatted as 2-Up, with the pages re-ordered such that when the stack of sheets for the document is folded in half the pages are in the proper order for a book.

When the BindingGutter ScoredProperty is specified for Booklet, the filter enforces a center margin (from the center of the paper to the edge of the scaled printable area) that is at least as large as specified by the DocumentBindingGutter parameter.

When the BindingGutter ScoredProperty is specified for BindLeft or EdgeStitchLeft the filter shifts the front side of the sheet to the right as specified by the DocumentBindingGutter parameter. Content on the right side that now falls outside the printable area will be clipped. Content on the back side of the sheet will be clipped on the right edge as specified by the DocumentBindingGutter Parameter.

When the BindingGutter ScoredProperty is specified for BindTop or EdgeStitchTop, the filter shifts the content of both the front and back sides of the sheet toward the bottom as specified by the DocumentBindingGutter Parameter. Content on the bottom that now falls outside the printable area will be clipped.

When the BindingGutter ScoredProperty is specified for BindRight or EdgeStitchRight the filter will clip the content on the front side of the sheet on the right as specified by the DocumentBindingGutter Parameter. Content on the back side of the sheet will be shifted to the left as specified by the DocumentBindingGutter Parameter. Content on the left side that now falls outside the printable area will be clipped.

When the BindingGutter ScoredProperty is specified for BindBottom or EdgeStitchBottom, the filter shifts the content of both the front and back sides of the sheet toward the top as specified by the DocumentBindingGutter parameter. Content on the top that now falls outside the printable area will be clipped.

**Note**  The binding edge is the specified edge based on the orientation of the first page of the document. For all other Options, BindingGutter is ignored.

 

If the GPD file does not specify a command for the selected option, then the PCL6 generated for the selected binding is determined by the filter.

If the PPD file does not specify an invocation command for the selected option, then the PostScript generated for the selected binding is determined by the filter.

## JobStapleAllDocuments


This feature describes the method to use when stapling the printed sheets in the print job. All documents in the job should be stapled together. Supported Options are any with a corresponding GPD/PPD entry.

The PCL6 generated for the selected stapling is specified by the GPD Staple Feature. The Option in the GPD to use is selected in the following order:

1. If PrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the JobStapleAllDocuments Option.

2. The name attribute of the JobStapleAllDocuments option matches the name of the option in the GPD.

The PostScript generated for the selected stapling is specified by the PPD feature with an MSPrintSchemaKeywordMap value of JobStapleAllDocuments or DocumentStaple. The option in the PPD to use is selected in the following order:
1. If MSPrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the JobStapleAllDocuments Option.

2. The name attribute of the JobStapleAllDocuments Option matches the name of the Option in the PPD.

## JobHolePunch


This feature describes the method to use when hole punching the printed sheets in the print job. All documents in the job should be hole punched together. Supported Options are any with a corresponding GPD/PPD entry.

The PCL6 generated for the selected hole punching is specified by the GPD feature with a PrintSchemaKeywordMap value of JobHolePunch or DocumentHolePunch. The option in the GPD to use is selected in the following order:

1. If PrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the JobHolePunch Option.

2. The name attribute of the JobHolePunch Option matches the name of the Option in the GPD.

The PostScript generated for the selected hole punching is specified by the PPD Feature with an MSPrintSchemaKeywordMap value of JobHolePunch or DocumentHolePunch. The Option in the PPD to use is selected in the following order:
1. If MSPrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the JobHolePunch Option.

2. The name attribute of the JobHolePunch Option matches the name of the Option in the PPD.

## DocumentHolePunch


This feature describes the method to use when hole punching the printed sheets of the associated document in the print job. All pages in the document should be hole punched together. Supported Options are any with a corresponding GPD/PPD entry.

The PCL6 generated for the selected hole punching is specified by the GPD Feature with a PrintSchemaKeywordMap value of JobHolePunch or DocumentHolePunch. The Option in the GPD to use is selected in the following order:

1. If PrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the DocumentHolePunch Option.

2. The name attribute of the DocumentHolePunch Option matches the name of the Option in the GPD.

The PostScript generated for the selected hole punching is specified by the PPD Feature with an MSPrintSchemaKeywordMap value of JobHolePunch or DocumentHolePunch. The option in the PPD to use is selected in the following order:
1. If MSPrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the DocumentHolePunch option.

2. The name attribute of the DocumentHolePunch option matches the name of the option in the PPD.

## PageMirrorImage


This Feature specifies if the page content should be mirrored. Supported Options are None and MirrorImageWidth.

The PCL6 generated for the selected mirroring is specified by the GPD Feature with a PrintSchemaKeywordMap value of PageMirrorImage. The Option in the GPD to use is selected in the following order:

1. If PrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the PageMirrorImage Option.

2. The name attribute of the PageMirrorImage Option matches the name of the Option in the GPD.

The PostScript generated for the selected mirroring is specified by the PPD MirrorPrint Feature. The Option in the PPD to use is selected in the following order:
1. If MSPrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the PageMirrorImage Option.

2. The following default mappings are used:

| PageMirrorImage value        | GPD/PPD file entry |
|------------------------------|--------------------|
| PrintTicket None             | PPD False          |
| PrintTicket MirrorImageWidth | PPD True           |

 

3. The name attribute of the PageMirrorImage Option matches the name of the Option in the PPD.

## PageNegativeImage


This Feature specifies if the page content should be a negative image. Supported Options are None and Negative.

The PCL6 generated for the selected negative printing is specified by the GPD Feature with a PrintSchemaKeywordMap value of PageNegativeImage. The Option in the GPD to use is selected in the following order:

1. If PrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the PageNegativeImage Option.

2. The name attribute of the PageNegativeImage Option matches the name of the Option in the GPD.

The PostScript generated for the selected negative printing is specified by the PPD NegativePrint Feature. The Option in the PPD to use is selected in the following order:
1. If MSPrintSchemaKeywordMap is specified and matches the name attribute of the PageNegativeImage Option.

2. The following default mappings are used:

| PageNegativeImage value | GPD/PPD file entry |
|-------------------------|--------------------|
| PrintTicket None        | PPD False          |
| PrintTicket Negative    | PPD True           |

 

3. The name attribute of the PageNegativeImage Option matches the name of the Option in the PPD.

## Related topics

[Default PageMediaSize mappings](default-pagemediasize-mappings.md)  

[Standard XPS Filters](standard-xps-filters.md)  

The print schema specifications can be downloaded here:

[Print Schema Specification 1.1](http://download.microsoft.com/download/1/6/a/16acc601-1b7a-42ad-8d4e-4f0aa156ec3e/print-schema-spec-1-1.zip)

[Print Schema Specification 2.0](http://download.microsoft.com/download/d/e/c/deca6e6b-3e81-48e7-b7ef-6d92a547d03c/print-schema-spec-2-0.zip)


