---
title: cpuinfo
description: The cpuinfo extension displays detailed information about the target computer's CPU.
ms.assetid: 1e7c348b-0de8-4925-b0a9-300391b6064e
keywords: ["cpuinfo Windows Debugging"]
topic_type:
- apiref
api_name:
- cpuinfo
api_type:
- NA
---

# !cpuinfo


The **!cpuinfo** extension displays detailed information about the target computer's CPU.

Syntax

``` syntax
    !cpuinfo [Processor] 
```

## <span id="ddk__cpuinfo_dbg"></span><span id="DDK__CPUINFO_DBG"></span>Parameters


<span id="_______Processor______"></span><span id="_______processor______"></span><span id="_______PROCESSOR______"></span> *Processor*   
Specifies the processor to be displayed. If this is omitted, all processors are displayed.

### <span id="DLL"></span><span id="dll"></span>DLL

Kdexts.dll

### <span id="Additional_Information"></span><span id="additional_information"></span><span id="ADDITIONAL_INFORMATION"></span>Additional Information

For more information about debugging multiprocessor computers, see [Multiprocessor Syntax](multiprocessor-syntax.md).

Remarks
-------

The **!cpuinfo** extension command can be used when performing [local kernel debugging](performing-local-kernel-debugging.md).

Here is an example generated by an x86-based processor:

```
kd> !cpuinfo
CP F/M/S Manufacturer  MHz Update Signature Features 
 0 6,1,9 GenuineIntel  198 000000d200000000 000000ff 
```

Here is an example generated by an Itanium-based processor:

```
kd> !cpuinfo
CP M/R/F/A Manufacturer     SerialNumber     Features         Speed
 0 2,1,31,0 GenuineIntel     0000000000000000 0000000000000001 1300 Mhz
 1 2,1,31,0 GenuineIntel     0000000000000000 0000000000000001 1300 Mhz
```

The **CP** column indicates the processor number. The **Manufacturer** column specifies the processor manufacturer. The **MHz** or **Speed** column specifies the speed, in MHz, of the processor, if it is available.

For an x86-based processor or an x64-based processor, the **F** column displays the processor family number, the **M** column displays the processor model number, and the **S** column displays the stepping size.

For an Itanium-based processor, the **M** column displays the processor model number, the **R** column displays the processor revision number, the **F** column displays the processor family number, and the **A** column displays the architecture revision number.

Other columns will also appear, depending on your machine's specific architecture.

For details on how to interpret specific values for each entry, as well as any additional columns, consult the processor manual.

 

 

[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20[debugger\debugger]:%20!cpuinfo%20%20RELEASE:%20%285/15/2017%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")




