---
title: wmitrace.dynamicprint
description: The wmitrace.dynamicprint extension controls whether the debugger displays the trace messages generated by a session running in KD_FILTER_MODE.
ms.assetid: 458a9dfa-e3cc-4652-a9e5-5098a962f1c7
keywords: ["wmitrace.dynamicprint Windows Debugging"]
ms.author: windowsdriverdev
ms.date: 05/23/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-devices
topic_type:
- apiref
api_name:
- wmitrace.dynamicprint
api_type:
- NA
---

# !wmitrace.dynamicprint


The **!wmitrace.dynamicprint** extension controls whether the debugger displays the trace messages generated by a session running in KD\_FILTER\_MODE.

```
!wmitrace.dynamicprint {0 | 1}
```

## <span id="ddk__wmitrace_dynamicprint_dbg"></span><span id="DDK__WMITRACE_DYNAMICPRINT_DBG"></span>Parameters


<span id="_______0______"></span> **0**   
Turns the trace message display off.

<span id="_______1______"></span> **1**   
Turns the trace message display on.

### <span id="DLL"></span><span id="dll"></span>DLL

This extension is exported by Wmitrace.dll.

This extension is available in Windows 2000 and later versions of Windows. If you want to use this extension with Windows 2000, you must first copy the Wmitrace.dll file from the winxp subdirectory of the Debugging Tools for Windows installation directory to the w2kfre subdirectory.

### <span id="Additional_Information"></span><span id="additional_information"></span><span id="ADDITIONAL_INFORMATION"></span>Additional Information

For a conceptual overview of event tracing, see the Microsoft Windows SDK. For help in starting a trace session, see "Tracelog" in the Windows Driver Kit (WDK).

Remarks
-------

Before you use this extension, start a trace session, and specify that the trace messages should be sent to the debugger. For example, if you use [**!wmitrace.start**](-wmitrace-start.md) to start the session, use the **-kd** parameter. If you use Tracelog to start the trace session, use its **-kd** parameter. Tracelog (tracelog.exe) is a trace controller included in the Windows Driver Kit.

Trace messages are held in a buffers on the target computer. Those buffers are flushed and sent to the debugger on the host computer at regular intervals. You can specify the flush timer interval by using the **-kd** parameter of the [**!wmitrace.start**](-wmitrace-start.md) command or the **-kd** parameter of the Tracelog tool. Starting in Windows 8, you can specify the flush timer value in milliseconds by appending **ms** to the flush timer value.

By default, ETW maintains per-processor trace buffers on the target computer. When the trace buffers are flushed and sent to the debugger on the host computer, there is no mechanism for merging the buffers into a chronological sequence of events. So the events might be displayed out of order. Starting in Windows 7, you can solve this problem by setting the **-lowcapacity** parameter when you use the Tracelog tool to start a trace session.

**Tracelog** *MySession* **-kd -lowcapacity**

When you start a session with **-lowcapacity** set, all events go to a single buffer on the target computer, and the events are displayed in the correct order in the debugger on the host computer.

Also, before using this extension, use [**!wmitrace.searchpath**](-wmitrace-searchpath.md) or [**!wmitrace.tmffile**](-wmitrace-tmffile.md) to specify the trace message format files. The system uses the trace message format files to format the binary trace messages so that they can be displayed as human-readable text.

## <span id="see_also"></span>See also


[**!wmitrace.start**](-wmitrace-start.md)

 

 

[Send comments about this topic to Microsoft](mailto:wsddocfb@microsoft.com?subject=Documentation%20feedback%20[debugger\debugger]:%20!wmitrace.dynamicprint%20%20RELEASE:%20%285/15/2017%29&body=%0A%0APRIVACY%20STATEMENT%0A%0AWe%20use%20your%20feedback%20to%20improve%20the%20documentation.%20We%20don't%20use%20your%20email%20address%20for%20any%20other%20purpose,%20and%20we'll%20remove%20your%20email%20address%20from%20our%20system%20after%20the%20issue%20that%20you're%20reporting%20is%20fixed.%20While%20we're%20working%20to%20fix%20this%20issue,%20we%20might%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20ask%20for%20more%20info.%20Later,%20we%20might%20also%20send%20you%20an%20email%20message%20to%20let%20you%20know%20that%20we've%20addressed%20your%20feedback.%0A%0AFor%20more%20info%20about%20Microsoft's%20privacy%20policy,%20see%20http://privacy.microsoft.com/default.aspx. "Send comments about this topic to Microsoft")





